BCCI's criminality BCCI's unique
criminal structure an elaborate
corporate spider web with bcc i--'s
founder Agha hassan a bt and his
assistant suave Naqvi in the middle was
an essential component of its
spectacular growth and a guarantee of
its eventual collapse the structure was
conceived by a BT and managed by Naqvi
for the specific purpose of evading
regulation or control by governments it
functioned to frustrate the full
understanding of bcc i--'s operations by
anyone unlike any ordinary bank BCCI was
from its earliest days made up of
multiplying layers of entities related
to one another through an impenetrable
series of holding companies affiliates
subsidiaries banks within banks and
Sander dealings and nominee
relationships by fracturing corporate
structure record-keeping regulatory
review and audits the complex BCCI
family of entities created by obd was
able to evade ordinary legal
restrictions on the movement of capital
and goods as a matter of daily practice
and routine and creating BCCI as a
vehicle fundamentally free of government
control a BT developed in BCCI an ideal
mechanism for facilitating illicit
activity by others including such
activity by officials of many of the
government's whose laws BCCI was
breaking as one BCCI officer later
recalled a bt had a saying that
expressed his view of outlaw quote the
only laws that are permanent are the
laws of nature
everything else is flexible we can
always work in and around the laws the
laws change
end quote BCC I would not change to
accommodate human laws on the occasions
that such laws actually interfered with
BC
business BCC I would as necessary
changed the laws to accommodate BCCI or
ignore them entirely significantly at
the same time that BCC I created its
elaborate corporate structure for the
purpose of deceiving and defrauding
those outside BCC I within bcc i bcc
i--'s various entities or largely
disregarded and treated interchangeably
as bcc i--'s Liquidators concluded one
year after the bank's closure and a
report to the bank's creditors committee
quote in a number of respects the bcc
i-- group appears to have conducted its
affairs as a single entity without
clearly identifying which company or
entity within the bcc i-- group was
responsible for any particular
transaction end quote as a result the
records of bcc i--'s criminal activity
constitute an accounting and legal
nightmare and a full record of what
actually took place is unlikely to be
reconstructed bcc i--'s multiplicity of
locations layered corporate structure
front companies front men its
willingness from the top down to falsify
information and its pervasive disregard
for the national laws of each country it
operated in combined to create a culture
of criminality within the bank so
massive as to defy investigation BCCI
records in the united states are
fragmentary and incomplete to the extent
that they are organized at all that
organization is in chronological order
document by document rather than
according to any subject matter customer
account or transaction though
fragmentary these records are also
voluminous amounting to at least 9,000
boxes in New York and Miami alone and
several million pages foreign BCCI
document repositories of BCCI especially
in the United Kingdom the grand Caymans
and
Diaby are even larger with access for us
investigators limited by foreign bank
confidentiality privacy laws and the
willingness of the foreign jurisdictions
to cooperate one year following the
closure of BCCI federal investigators in
the u.s. were still in the process of
microfilming BCCI documents from Miami
and liquidators for BCCI and the United
Kingdom had indexed 1,600 boxes
containing approximately 2.4 million
separate BCCI documents approximately
2.5 percent of the total of BCCI's
documents in the United Kingdom
adding to the inherent problem of
investigating the largest case of
organized crime in history spanning over
some 72 nations has been the destruction
of documents at BCCI and its affiliates
by shredding and arson document back
dating and falsification the removal of
most key documents from London to Abu
Dhabi in 1990 the refusal of authorities
in the United Kingdom and in the grand
Caymans to share information with
Congress and other US investigators as a
consequence of their interpretation of
local bank confidentiality and privacy
laws the inability to question a BD due
to his stroke the inability to question
BCCI's other key officials due to their
incarceration and segregation in Abu
Dhabi by Abu Dhabi officialdom since
July 5th 1991 and BCCI's haphazard
method of record-keeping regardless of
what might be shown in the missing
material the remainder is more than
adequate to document BCCI's criminality
including fraud by BCCI and BCCI
customers involving billions of dollars
money laundering in Europe Africa Asia
and the Americas BCCI's bribery of
officials in most of those locations its
support of terrorism arms trafficking
and the sale of nuclear technologies its
management of
Austin it's commission and facilitation
of income tax evasion smuggling and
illegal immigration it's illicit
purchases of banks and real estate and a
panoply of financial crimes limited only
by the imagination of its officers and
customers among BCCI's principle
mechanisms for committing crimes were
shell corporations bank confidentiality
and secrecy havens layering of corporate
structure front men and nominees back to
back financial documentation among BCCI
controlled entities kickbacks and bribes
intimidation of witnesses and retention
of well-placed insiders to discourage
governmental action as Robert Muller the
third the assistant attorney general at
the Justice Department now in charge of
the BCCI investigation testified in
October 1991 quote the CCI was not an
ordinary Bank it was set up deliberately
to avoid centralized regulatory review
and operated extensively in bank secrecy
jurisdictions its affairs are
extraordinarily complex its officers
were sophisticated international bankers
whose apparent objective was to keep
their affairs secret to commit fraud on
a massive scale and to avoid detection
end quote
in the words of former Senate
investigator Jack Bloom quote the
problem that we are all having and
dealing with this bank is that it had
3,000 criminal customers and every one
of those 3,000 criminal customers is a
page-one story
so if you pick up on one of BCCI's
accounts you could find financing from
nuclear weapons gun-running narcotics
dealing and you will find all manner and
means of crime around the world and the
records of this bank
end quote however daunting the task of
explicating the full extent of BCCI's
criminality it is essential to recognize
that at court BCCI was not a bank which
made an adequate
return on investment through lending out
depositors funds like other banks but a
Ponzi scheme which used new depositors
funds to pay current expenses and to
repay earlier depositors creating a
pyramid of mounting obligations that
ultimately and inevitably would bring
about BCCI's collapse as Blum testified
quote the people I talked to at the bank
would say this was a bank that was very
strange because it needed deposits all
the time and if you're running a Ponzi
scheme you need more and more cash in to
support the whole system of fraud that
you've generated what it meant was that
BCCI people would go out and bribe
central bank officials and high
government officials to get them to
deposit their country's foreign exchange
at BCCI and in exchange for whatever
amount of money suddenly the foreign
exchange reserves of a country would be
put there and put to use end quote
from the beginning BCCI president IBD
conceived of BCCI as a machine with two
driving mechanisms asset growth and
faith
the latter was essential to prevent a
day of reckoning when depositors and
creditors alike would cause a run on the
bank the former was necessary to sustain
the latter through bad times together
they worked to sustain the illusion that
BCCI was solvent when in fact it is
unlikely BCCI was ever solvent on
December 18 1991 in an agreement with
the Justice Department and New York
District Attorney BCCI's Liquidators
pled guilty to having engaged in a
criminal conspiracy through financial
fraud and thereby constituting a
racketeering influenced and corrupt
organization
Rico whose entire assets legitimate and
illegitimate were subject to
confiscation by the government specific
crimes admitted to by BCCI's Liquidators
in the agreement included seeking
deposits of drug proceeds and
laundering drug money seeking deposits
from persons attempting to evade US
income taxes using straws and nominees
to acquire control of US financial
institutions lying to regulators and
falsifying regulatory documents creating
false bank records and engaging in sham
transactions to deceive regulators thus
the criminality at BCCI was not as has
sometimes been suggested a side effect
of the bank's enormous growth during the
1970s an unintended consequence of
overly rapid expansion but inherent in
the bank's philosophy of asset expansion
from the beginning and pervasive
to its closure while US law enforcement
was not able to legally establish BCCI
as organized crime until December 1991
the scope of BCCI's criminality had been
clear to both prosecutors and BCCI's
defense team at least a year earlier as
BCCI's own private investigators hired
by the bank after its indictment in
Tampa for money laundering in October
1988 told BCCI officials in 1990 quote
it is the government's view that BCC is
a full-service Bank in the worst sense
of the phrase prosecutors believe that
it is official bank policy to actively
seek out and market high net worth
individuals and to gain from them large
and frequent deposits preferably in cash
they see such marketing efforts as being
done at best without regard for the
source of the customer's cash and at
worst with tacit acceptance or even
actual knowledge that in many cases the
customers money is derived from illegal
enterprises most notably narcotics in
the eyes of some prosecutors and
investigators the banks services are not
limited merely to accepting the proceeds
of illegal activities they believe that
BCCI officers and employees with express
upper men
approval also actively assist and even
advised their customers on the most
effective methods of hiding their money
and debating taxes money for example is
seen to be hidden or laundered by the
constant carefully controlled transfer
of funds from one account to another
within BCC and its worldwide branches or
between BCC and other banks related to
BCC thus making the money almost
impossible for a US law enforcement to
trace end quote as an officer of BCC I
Canada wrote to law enforcement just
three days after the closure of BCC I
worldwide even those inside BCC I were
often appalled by its practices quote we
have read with a sense of relief that
finally somebody had the guts to
investigate into the affairs in the bank
BCC I sa bcc i overseas and bcc canada
have been for years conducting false
accounting practices concealment of
losses more so to avoid displeasing the
era of owners and making irregular loans
end quote
the letter went on to describe the
knowledge of principal officers of bcc
i-- including its chief executive
officer in the americas knowledge of
money laundering drug trafficking loans
created in bogus names and advances of
funds to non-existent companies in
London Luxembourg Cyprus Malta the
Channel Islands and other locations the
writer begged investigators prosecute
quote the big crooks in London and Abu
Dhabi end quote BCCI Paris branch
manager Nazir shenoy would later admit
to investigators that essentially all of
bcc i--'s activity in France was the
result of the customer or the bank or
both violating somebody's laws quote all
the money we got at BCCI France and some
way we were breaking the law if you take
it with a kickback you were breaking
foreign-exchange all Africans who
brought their money got Commission's
which meant kickbacks back-to-back LCS
to misrepresent financial deals taking
out less money in a third world country
and keeping a share kickbacks exchanges
laundering in some way you are breaking
the law in each case the law breaking
was pretty systematic end quote scope
types and techniques of fraud BCCI's
financial empire was built on the
fiction that it was heavily capitalized
by oil-rich arab leaders when the
reality was that most of them and
according to some credible information
all of them were acting as nominees
providing either their names to BCCI
or their names plus their funds in the
form of deposits to BCCI to get a
guaranteed no risk return rather than as
actual investors at risk as a result
BCCI never had a substantial capital
base and was forced from the beginning
to use deposits to meet operating
expenses rather than to properly invest
them in legitimate loans or other
financing not having the actual capital
base BCCI simply pretended it was there
and enlisted the reputations of its
shareholders to assist it in so
pretending in order to lure others to
deposit their funds with BCCI
as BCCI officers have told the
subcommittee BCCI in effect had to
create retained capital out of operating
profits through juggling its books
because of the lack of real
capitalization because of the lack of
real profits as well these supposed
profits had to in turn be manufactured
through juggling the books pertaining to
deposits these deposits in turn could
only receive a good return on investment
through taking the funds from new
deposits requiring BCCI to grow
a frenzied pace in order to avoid
collapse as Manhattan prosecutor Robert
Morgenthau described in his indictment
against BCCI of July 29th 1991 - whose
first six counts BCCI's Liquidators pled
guilty as part of the December 1991 plea
agreement quote BCCI's scheme was
premised on the fact that banks rely on
credit the essence of the scheme was to
convince depositors and other banking
and financial institutions by means of
false pretenses representations and
promises that the BCC group was a safe
financial repository and institution for
funds and thereby defendants acted to
persuade depositors and banking and
other financial institutions to provide
the BCC group banks with deposits and
credit end quote the New York District
Attorney found that among the major
actions taken by BCCI to carry out its
fraud or employing the ruling families
of a number of middle eastern states as
nominees for BCCI who pretended to be at
risk in BCCI but who were in fact
guaranteed to be held harmless by BCCI
for any actual losses using bank secrecy
havens including Luxembourg and the
Cayman Islands to avoid regulation on a
consolidated basis by any single
regulator of BCCI and thereby to permit
BCCI to transfer assets and liabilities
from bank to bank as needed to conceal
BCCI's true economic status paying
bribes and kickbacks to agents of other
banking and financial institutions
thereby avoiding the scrutiny of
regulators thus and
gnorm report an insider's account of
BCCI's fraud created by bcc i--'s own
auditors Pricewaterhouse and provided to
the Bank of England dated June 22nd 1991
the sandstorm report was the final
evidence that led to the shutdown of
BCCI globally on July 5th 1991 that
draft report based on a review of
banking records from several countries
and interviews carried out through the
spring of 1991 found evidence of
widespread fraud and manipulation at
BCCI reflecting quote the general scale
and complexity of the deceptions which
have undoubtedly taken place over many
years end quote
this information was developed when
Pricewaterhouse investigated some 600
million dollars of BCCI deposits not
recorded in bcc i--'s books other major
losses related to bcc i accounts in
related entities including IC IC and the
grand Caymans sometimes known as bcc
i--'s bank within a bank the bunk de
commerce a place of all ABC CI
subsidiary in Switzerland the Kuwaiti
investment finance company ki f Co a
secret BCCI subsidiary ostensibly owned
by ABC CI nominee the sandstorm report
has been provided to the subcommittee
solely in a heavily censured form by the
Federal Reserve at the insistence of the
Bank of England which forbid the Federal
Reserve from providing a clean copy of
the report to the Congress on the
extensible ground that to do so would
violate British bank secrecy and
confidentiality laws however even with
the hundreds of items and almost every
identifiable name in the report censured
it is clear that the sandstorm report
outlines criminality on a vast scale
among the specific
types of BCCI fraud described by Price
Waterhouse in sandstorm or account
manipulation of non-performing loans
fictitious profits and concealed losses
fictitious loans set up in connection
with repurchases of shares
misappropriation of deposits fictitious
transactions and charges unrecorded
deposit liabilities nominee arrangements
to create false capitalisation
unorthodox and apparently illegal
repurchasing arrangements for
shareholders the parking of loans to
avoid recognition of losses shoddy
lending bad investments off-book
transactions false confirmations of
transactions misrepresentations with
respect to beneficial ownership of
shares fictitious customer loans
falsified audit confirmations and the
drafting of fraudulent agreements the
sandstorm report prepared by Price
Waterhouse for the benefit of BCC is
final group of managers brought in for
the purpose of finding a way to help BCC
I survived as a wholly owned subsidiary
of Abu Dhabi describes BCCI's fraud
rather kindly as originating in BCCI's
sense of vulnerability in case of any
losses because of its lack of any lender
of last resort and the hostile attitude
of the international banking community
according to Price Waterhouse to
compensate for this weakness BCCI's
management including a B D and Naqvi
believed it was essential to declare
profitability every year regardless of
the true financial condition of BCC I
accordingly a BT and Naqvi provided
guaranteed rates of return to principal
Middle Eastern shareholders of BCC I and
then falsified and manipulated accounts
and records as necessary in order to pay
those returns while still showing
profits when BCC
actually lost money due to poor lending
practices rather than accept provisions
for the losses it simply disguised them
through what Price Waterhouse described
as a very complicated series of
manipulations of loan and deposit
accounts Treasury activities and
purchases of its own shares Price
Waterhouse found significant account
manipulation at BCCI
beginning as early as 1976 these account
manipulations were according to be CCI
officials interviewed by the
subcommittee carried out in order to
make BCCI appear to be a far more
profitable institution than it really
was
and thus provide a sufficient capital
base to justify its level of lending and
provide security for its deposits as
BCCI's losses grew so did its
manipulation of accounts and its frauds
as well as its use of affiliated and
related entities such as IC IC and the
grand Caymans the banco de commerce at
play Sima in Geneva the National Bank of
Oman and the Kuwaiti investment Finance
Corporation ki FCO the bank has a
history of poor lending where it now
appears that a significant amount of
account manipulation has gone on this
has included the utilization of funds
routed through fork I see I see
including funds managed by fork
investments I see I see investments the
use of fictitious lionize drawn down in
the names of third parties and the use
of unrecorded deposits and an attempt to
avoid the need to make provisions this
routing of funds has been carried out on
a very significant scale involving a
number of related companies including
the fork Holdings Group ICIC Holdings
Group loans n Bo and ki FCO and third
party banks such that it is now
difficult for anyone to ascertain the
true nature of external exposures
recorded in the names of certain major
customers it now
appears that over the period from 1977
to 1985 the Treasury operations of
sandstorm made significant losses these
losses were concealed and at the same
time significant profits were
manufactured they precise amount of such
loans fictitious profits cannot now be
established but may well have been in
the order of 600 to 700 million dollars
before funding costs or approaching 1
billion dollars if funding costs are
added these losses were originally
funded through unorthodox means at the
behest of a beedi the underlying
situation at BCCI
already bad worsened dramatically in
1985 as a result of 500 million dollars
in losses incurred by BCCI
and commodity trading undertaken through
Capcom BCCI's commodity trading
affiliate managed for BCCI by SM Akbar
according to mas ahora Raman who was
BCCI's chief financial officer at the
time this was equivalent to BCCI's
entire capital and threatened to wipe
out the Bank Price Waterhouse concluded
quote in 1986 it was discovered that
significant losses had been incurred in
option trading when akbar resigned he
left a record of his activities with
redacted by Bank of England who brought
under his own control the amounts which
had been financed by unorthodox means
redacted by Bank of England set up a
small central team under redacted by
Bank of England to review the record
left by redacted by Bank of England to
verify the representations made by Akbar
and maintain contact with the customers
we understand that whilst redacted by
Bank of England attempted to establish
some control by illegible customers
deposits largely by using funds from
fork icic he could not bring himself to
make full disk
which would almost certainly have
brought the bank down instead as a
result of continued pressure for profits
and Loan Servicing he continued to use
unrecorded deposits certain external
funds with fork Holdings ICIC Holdings
and companies controlled but not legally
owned by it and funds were drawn down on
bogus loan accounts in the name of
prominent Middle East investors these
funds were applied to adjust other
balances in order to avoid making
provision for bad loans and to conceal
the past Treasury losses in an enormous
and complex web of fictitious
transactions and what is probably one of
the most complex deceptions in banking
history these losses now form a major
part of the current deficit in the bank
which has been rectified by the
financial support arrangements providing
by the government of Abu Dhabi end quote
managers Ledger's and numbered accounts
among BCCI's unusual practices was the
use of managers Ledger's in addition to
numbered accounts to manipulate accounts
through back-to-back transactions that
were essentially untraceable BCCI
insiders advised the subcommittee in
early 1991 that these accounts often
were designated solely as ml with a
number following it and often no one
other than the BCCI officer responsible
for the account would have any idea who
if anyone owned it in some cases even
the BCCI officer in charge of the
account would be unable to identify its
owner Price Waterhouse described this
practice in BCCI grand Caymans as early
as April 1986 stating that quote we have
no particular objection to using
numbered accounts but we found that in
most instances none of the officers of
the Grand Cayman office were able to
correctly identify either the
of the borrower or the credit officer
responsible for monitoring the account
at other locations end quote
at the time Price Waterhouse suggested
that BCCI should improve its management
of such accounts to prevent such
occurrences but when the bank failed to
do so
Price Waterhouse took no additional
action other than adding an asterisk to
this notation and later audit reports
indicating that the recommendation had
been made to BCCI
more than once later Price Waterhouse
noted how financial transactions from
BCCI to its secretly held Swiss
subsidiary loans were marked pay without
mentioning our name with the result that
the recipients of the funds from loans
were unable to determine from whom or
where the money had come price
Waterhouse's findings were later
affirmed by its successor accountants to
SH Ross who handled the liquidation of
BCCI
a year after becoming liquidator touch
Ross noted that the true picture of bcc
i--'s activities was distorted by such
practices as loan parking artificial
fund transfers the provision of multiple
loans to a customer
each secured by the same property and
many similar improper practices BCCI
concealment of treasury losses in 1985
after rumors of bcc i--'s losses in
options trading reached bank regulators
luxembourg bank regulators asked BCCI to
provide an audited review of its central
treasury activities BCCI selected Price
Waterhouse caiman to perform the work
which determined in early 1986 that
significant losses had been incurred and
not recorded according to Price
Waterhouse it concluded then that the
losses and lack of record-keeping were
due to incompetence however in the 1991
sandstorm
report Pricewaterhouse found that quote
with the benefit of hindsight it appears
more sinister in that it now seems to
have been a deliberate way to
fictitiously inflate income end quote
BCCI officials have confirmed that the
account provided Price Waterhouse in
1986 was designed to conceal the
long-term nature of BCCI's inflation of
its books by Odin Akbar the Treasury
official held responsible for the
massive losses in 1986 and fired by BCCI
at the time following their discovery
told to BCCI officials in the US in 1988
that akbar had been a scapegoat used by
BCCI's management to deceive the
auditors when the auditors had
accidentally caught on to long term
manipulations by BCCI of its financial
condition so I Odin Akbar told these
officials that BCCI had been inflating
its assets from the mid-1970s in order
to make it look profitable when it was
not when price waterhouse discovered
this activity in 1986 BCCI's top
officials worked out a scheme with akbar
under which he would accept
responsibility and pretend that the
losses had just happened in the previous
year due to unwise commodity
speculations by BCCI
in that way the losses would be viewed
by outsiders as an unfortunate one-time
occurrence and with the sacrifice of
Akbar BCCI could continue in its 1991
review Price Waterhouse found that among
the specific techniques used by BCCI to
hide its losses or misappropriation of
deposits without depositors knowledge to
provide funds to adjust non-performing
and bogus loan accounts and Treasury
losses misappropriation of external
funds deposited under trust with
sandstorm BCCI and fork ICIC to be
managed on behalf of a few prominent
people
who are also shareholders of BCCI
Holdings the creation of loans with no
commercial substance and the names of
people without their knowledge
selling certificates of deposit placed
with the central Treasury without
informing the depositors and using the
proceeds to fund adjustments routing
funds through ICIC loans ki FCO SDCC and
other affiliates and third parties to
make adjustments prior to accounting
reference states and audit confirmation
dates which were often reversed at a
later date
I see I see the bank within a bank from
the early days of BCCI
the various legal entities known
collectively as IC IC functioned
officially as a BCCI pension fund for
BCCI officers and unofficially as bcc
i--'s principal bank within a bank the
flexibility of IC IC to carry out many
different schemes for obd is indicated
by the number of different entities of
BD created using the identical IC IC
abbreviation including international
credit and investment company overseas
limited international credit and
investment company limited international
credit and commerce overseas limited IC
IC holdings of Grand Cayman I see I see
apex holdings IC IC overseas
Cayman IC IC foundation the IC IC staff
benefit fund the IC IC staff benefit
trust IC IC business promotions IC IC
business and promotions and others as
BCCI Liquidators in the grand Caymans
found IC IC was not really a bank at all
but a post-office box location to book
transactions that were initiated
organized and approved in other parts of
BCCI
in essence ICIC was a conduit or
mechanism for BCCI's fraud some of the
bewildering number of purposes and uses
of the different IC ICS included IC IC
apex holding limited incorporated on
October 2nd 1987 as the ultimate holding
company for the IC IC group equivalent
to a charitable trust with the
beneficiaries designated as mankind at
large IC IC holdings incorporated on
April 6th 1976 as the holding company
for the IC IC group created as the
holding company for IC IC overseas
IC IC holdings invested in IC IC
overseas and loaned money to IC IC
foundation and the IC IC staff benefit
fund I see I see
overseas limited incorporated on April
6th 1976 as an offshore bank to
facilitate the purchase and sale of BCCI
shares and to provide private banking
services for BCCI shareholders and
customers IC IC overseas also advanced
funds to nominees to allow them to
purchase interests in the three other
BCCI affiliates antalk oil credit and
commerce insurance and the saudi
development company IC IC foundation
Cayman a charitable foundation wholly
owned by the IC IC foundation in the
United Kingdom established as a gift of
BCCI shares owned by IC IC holdings the
assets of the foundation were shares in
BCCI and the assets of the UK foundation
were one third of the shares of loans
the secretly owned Swiss affiliate of
BCCI IC IC staff benefit fund a Cayman
entity wholly owned by the IC IC staff
benefit trust for the benefit of BCCI
employees established by
BCCI shares from icic holdings this
entity held another one-third of the
shares of loans usually correspondence
and transactions involving any of these
ICIC entities would refer merely to ICIC
leaving it to top BCCI management to
determine which of the entities if any
would get credit or be debited for the
particular transaction no one within
BCCI other than a BD Naqvi and a small
circle of younger assistants at an
overall picture of I see I see two early
Pakistani recruits to be CCI such as
masa hua ramen I see I see was described
as a parallel organization to BCCI which
would quote hold shares of the bank for
the founder group end quote in essence a
holding company controlling the stock of
the BCCI holding companies ICIC was also
from the beginning a mechanism to
disguise and misrepresent the ownership
of BCCI as needed I see I see took on
additional characteristics Bank
Foundation and finance company but its
most usual purpose was to act as a
vehicle for BCCI's inflation of assets
and concealment of losses acting as a
mechanism for at least 1 billion dollars
of circular transactions to inflate
BCCI's books the first detailed audit of
ICIC conducted by Price Waterhouse took
place in 1991 with its draft conclusions
provided to BCCI as Board of Directors
on June 17 1991 in a report classified
by Price Waterhouse as strictly private
and confidential The Price Waterhouse
report provides cautions that its
findings were based on records which
were missing falsified or incomplete
but the picture drawn in the report
again details fraud on a massive scale
the price waterhouse audit found that
bcc i-- effectively controlled I see I
see and that most I see I see
transactions were initiated at the
instructions of senior BCCI management
swalot Naqvi the number two man at BCC I
and two of his assistants mr. Hafiz and
mr. Imam I see I sees uses included
financing BCCI shares in capitalization
through the use of nominees buyback
arrangements and guaranteed minimum
returns on investments routing funds in
a manner to disguise their true nature
and effect on BCCI
providing guarantees through commitments
signed by BCCI management on Icee Icee
letterhead for various nominee
arrangements for shareholders of
companies secretly controlled by bcc i
such as first american through its
holding company CCA h lending to bcc i--
shareholders and customers paying bcc i
expenses handling the management of
customer funds controlled by bcc i--
chairman obd through powers of attorney
bcc i buying its own shares through
nominees through I see I see
processing financial transactions that
were unrecorded at BCC I and which
therefore remain untraceable in all I
see I see made two hundred ninety
million dollars in loans of which all
but perhaps twenty five million dollars
is apparently lost about ninety three
point five million dollars of those
loans were used to purchase shares of
bcc i itself another 100 million dollars
in loans went to nominees for bcc i-- or
for routing transactions aimed at
disguising bcc i--'s financial status
another twenty million dollars went to
an IC IC subsidiary i see AC and
effectively disappeared in IC a cease
insolvency
another 62 million dollars in lending
went to secure interests and other
entities by BCCI shareholders including
people who were clearly serving as
nominees ICIC lending included millions
to major front meant for BCCI including
guys and wa Baelfire own faisal ala
felishj prince turkey and mohammad
Hammoud the role at BCCI of Hammoud who
purchased the shares of clark clifford
and robert altman in first american in
1988 with funds lent him by BCCI is
illustrated by the fact that when his
BCCI loans became delinquent they were
simply transferred from BCCI
to i see i see examples of i see i see
being used by BCCI to handle nominee
relations include while Baelfire own
writing I see I see on December 4th 1984
to confirm that all transactions and
BCCI shares in his name were undertaken
as a nominee faisal alpha lodge writing
i see i see on february 16 1985 to
confirm that IC IC was entitled to all
profits and was required to bear all
losses on the CCA h first american bank
shares in his name which were being
managed by IC IC bcc i officer HM Cosme
riding Saudi sheikh kamal adham on
august 2nd 1987 to confirm that Adam was
not liable for any loans recorded in his
name on the books of I see I see
including Adams loans secured by his
shares of CCA H for the first American
Bank and attic oil I see I see also
offered unorthodox services including
guarantees against loss to prominent
middle-eastern political figures
including the rulers of several Gulf
states for example BCCI number two
swallowed Naqvi sent confirmation
letters in february 19
from ICIC Holdings to the rulers of
Osman and Fuu Shara advising them that
loans to them from BCCI
would be paid off through proceeds from
the disposal of their shares in CCA H
owner of the first American Bank in the
event that their shares did not cover
losses not to be confirmed that these
rulers would not be required by ICIC or
BCCI to pay them it is notable that at
the time Naqvi made this commitment CCA
h and the first american banks had not
been offered for sale to anyone
money-laundering from the time of bcc
i--'s indictment on drug money
laundering charges in tampa florida in
october 1988 there was little doubt to
anyone looking at the facts that VCC i
have been used to launder drug money the
customs agents working on the see chase
case against bcc i moved millions of
dollars in US currency representing the
proceeds of cocaine sales through bcc i
panama BCCI luxembourg and loans
switzerland as a result of the knowing
participation of several bcc i--
officials as robert masseur the customs
agent in tampa who selected bcc i is the
target of the customs money laundering
sting testified BCCI bank executives
volunteered methods to enhance and
improve his techniques for money
laundering and shortly before the sting
ended the operation offered to introduce
missouri to other potential cash
customers for money laundering services
from bogota colombia
attorneys for BCCI and the bank itself
contended that the tampa case
represented an accident involving a
small number of bank officers indeed
when BCCI itself pled guilty to money
laundering in january 1990 the bank
continued to take the position that this
guilty plea only constituted
admission that a few of its employees
had engaged in the activity and that
it's guilty plea was based solely on a
theory of corporate responsibility
respondeat superior as BCCI's attorneys
argued to federal prosecutors and Senate
staff prior to the bank's January 1990
plea agreement it was inevitable that a
bank operating in so many countries
would be used by drug traffickers this
was partially true as the Deputy
Assistant Secretary of State for
international narcotics matters
acknowledged quote setting aside those
instances where BCCI managers knowingly
promoted money laundering BCCI seemed
attracted to traffickers for the same
reasons that other banks have been found
attractive first traffickers seek
international banks that are
sophisticated in wire transfers that
have branches in those parts of the
world where they operate and which
permit quick retrieval of funds second
traffickers seek banks in those
countries where national banking laws
afford maximum secrecy to depositors
permit nominee accounts and do not
provide for close monitoring of
cross-border transactions of currency
movements end quote given BCCI's size
and dispersion money laundering at BCC I
would have been inevitable under any
circumstances given BCCI's never-ending
quest for assets and it's management's
attitude toward laws it was ubiquitous
as akbar bill gourami explained a bt was
constantly telling bcc i-- employees
that the only thing that mattered was
the generation of assets when bill
Graeme was in Colombia in the mid-1980s
a period when Colombia had already
developed the reputation as the center
for cocaine smuggling and drug money
Beatty told him that he needed to
increase BCCI's activity in Colombia to
1 billion dollars in local currency and
deposits and 1 billion dollars in u.s.
denominated deposits
funds which obviously could only be
generated directly or indirectly from
the drug trade BCCI's December 1991 plea
agreement with US law enforcement
outlines the systemic nature of the
money-laundering as follows 40 the BCCI
defendants and their affiliates would
and did formulate and implement a
corporate strategy for increasing BCCI's
deposits by encouraging placements of
funds from the proceeds of drug sales
and conscious disregard of the currency
regulations tax laws and anti-drug laws
of the united states and of other
nations 41 and furtherance of the BCCI
group's corporate strategy to pursue
deposits in disregard of United States
and foreign law the BCCI defendants
would knowingly offer a full range of
services to drug importers suppliers and
money launderers forty two
co-conspirators would and did conduct
financial transactions with narcotics
drug proceeds including the wire
transfer of said proceeds from places in
the United States to and through other
places outside the United States with
the intent to conceal and disguise the
nature location source and ownership of
these drug proceeds the criminal
information entered into by the
liquidators outlined how BCCI laundered
money detailing its use of certificates
of deposits held at foreign branches to
offset cash deposits made in the u.s.
it's technique of crediting
counterbalancing loan proceeds to
foreign corporate bank accounts
designated by drug traffickers and bcc
i--'s use of false names codes and
counter surveillance techniques against
law enforcement among other money
laundering techniques knowledge of the
bank's money laundering activity was not
limited to a few high-level officials at
the bank as former BCCI chief
Financial Officer masa who are ramen
contended as abdur Sakia formerly bcc
i--'s chief officer in the united states
testified it had been obvious within bcc
i as of 1983 that the bank had adopted a
conscious policy of soliciting drug
funds when it decided to purchase a bank
in columbia it was obvious to say kia
and other bcc i-- officers then that bcc
i--'s motivation for obtaining the
columbia bank was its recognition that
enormous amounts of US currency were
being generated as a result of narcotics
trafficking and that columbia could
become an extremely profitable operation
for bcc i-- according to Sakia quote we
knew that the money that we would be
getting in columbia would be drug money
we knew that all the dollar deposits we
would be getting would be drug money end
quote
Sakia contended that his own attempts to
discourage bcc i--'s entry into the
Colombian market resulted in his being
denied the position of becoming regional
manager for BCCI throughout the Americas
in retaliation for his unwillingness to
go along with bcc i--'s plan quote if I
had agreed to the purchase of the
Columbia Bank I would have been head of
the Latin American region total but I
opposed the purchase of the Colombian
Bank I opposed it for two reasons I
didn't want that size of acquisition we
wouldn't know the 500 people of staff we
were taking over well enough we were
getting branches in lawless areas like
Cartagena Callie and Medellin there were
armed guards every time I went from
Bogota to the hotel in Colombia I made
an effort to get controls on our
accounts in Miami because of concerns
about drug money I was opposed by London
and by Emir and Salim Sadik II who was
also head of audit and compliance and
simultaneously head of growth and profit
while Secchia provided key information
to US investigators about wrongdoing at
BCCI other BCCI officers remaining
the institution scoffed at his
professions of innocence and the bank's
criminality
similarly Massa who Raman who likewise
provided vital information to this and
other investigations professed to have
been excluded from all wrongdoing at the
bank but other BCCI insiders contended
that Raman assisted BCCI's inner circle
in deception if and invert n't Lee
through noting deficiencies in bcc i--'s
books and warning other officials of the
risks if they were not corrected as one
BCCI official told investigators in the
spring of 1992 quote massa who a ramen
was head of finance and he was a member
of the central management committee he
was never part of the inner clique of
the top four or five and yet he had a
very significant position because all of
the balance sheets were reviewed by him
he packaged the balance sheets he is a
very intelligent man if there were any
shortcomings here or there he came up
with the ideas of how to make it look
good
as a professional he dressed them up
when he saw deficiencies he was a
technocrat he understood what the
international world wants whereas a lot
of the others did not meet outsiders at
all from their point of view what was
good enough for Pakistan or India was
good enough masaha Rahman had a higher
standard he told them what they had to
come up with and not be produced the
proper figures in response
end quote the degree of BCCI
us is reliance on money-laundering as a
principal business was demonstrated by
what happened when BCCI put into place a
compliance program as part of its
January 1990 plea agreement resolving
the Tampa money-laundering case business
dropped noticeably especially referrals
from other BCCI locations because
neither BCCI nor its customers wanted to
provide details about the customers
businesses BCCI's clients for
money-laundering included Panamanian
general Manuel Noriega
for whom it managed some twenty three
million dollars of criminal proceeds out
of its London branches Pablo Escobar of
the Medellin Cartel Rodriguez gasha of
the Medellin Cartel and several members
of the Achaia family bribery bribery was
a key component of BCCI's strategy for
asset growth worldwide from the earliest
days of the bank in some cases the
recipients of funding from BCCI may not
have considered the payments to be
bribes but simply a mechanism by which
BCCI obtained what it wanted from an
official and in return the official
helped BCCI such as BCCI's payments to
two of the gulf Amir's and returned for
the use of their names as nominees for
the purchase of first american in other
cases the bribes were naked and direct
quid pro quos such as BCCI's payments to
central bank officials and return for
central bank deposits and countries like
Peru in other cases BCCI made campaign
contributions to politicians such as it
did with General Zia in Pakistan and
Carlos Andres Perez and Venezuela and
still other cases BCCI's payments came
in the guise of charitable contributions
and provided BCCI with an entree to
generate deposits from others as in the
case of President Jimmy Carter among the
Americans who BCCI provided with
financial assistance in addition to
Carter were US ambassador to the United
Nations Andrew Young Bert Lance and
Jesse Jackson abroad important figures
with extensive contact with BCCI
included former British Prime Minister
James Callaghan then United Nations
secretary-general Javier Perez de
Cuellar Jamaican Prime Minister Edward
Seaga
and Tiguan Prime Minister Lester Byrd a
large number of African heads of state
and many third world Central Bank
officials the courting of important
governmental and political figures was
tasks ordinarily undertaken directly by
a bt usually with considerable secrecy
typically a local BCCI official would
make contact with a key national
political figure who would then be
passed on to a bt a bt would then assess
that officials needs and try to put
together a transaction suitable to the
officials status and needs in some cases
a bt would not make a bribe per se but
would instead use bcc i--'s resources to
build goodwill which he in turn would
then make use of to generate assets
elsewhere
this was a bt's approach for example
with President Jimmy Carter who received
millions of dollars in BCCI funding for
charitable activities and then traveled
with a bt to developing nations
providing a bt with entry to their
leaders and often the assets of their
central banks a bt used a similar
approach with Jesse Jackson and Andrew
Young both of whom had business expenses
paid for by BCCI and either solicited
business for BCCI in return or offered
to do so when it came to general Noriega
bribes were unnecessary as BCCI provided
the far more important service of
laundering 23 million dollars of his
money and keeping it safe from other
governments and his eventual successors
in panama by ensuring its disappearance
following his indictments but to
demonstrate BCCI's hospitality the bank
still made sure that it provided Noriega
with an expensive gift a $25,000 Persian
carpet hand delivered with a biddies
regards to Noriega by a luden shake in
other cases however BCCI would make
direct payments to key officials
sometimes in suitcases filled with cash
as BCCI officer abdur Sakia stated in
interviews with subcommittee staff quote
a biddies philosophy was to appeal to
every sector president carter's main
thing was charity so he gave Carter
charity
Pakistani president Xia's brother-in-law
needed a job he got a job
Bangladeshi president Ashraf's mistress
needed a job she got a job admission of
your son to a top college he would
arrange it somehow
according to Sakia quote there was a
worldwide list of people who were in the
payoff of BCCI it was my understanding
this included the family of Indira
Gandhi a shot of Bangladesh and General
Zia in Africa most of the leaders of
Africa in Zambia Zimbabwe Mugabe and
others were all understood to have
received money end quote
according to both sigh Kia and BCCI's
Paras manager Nazir Shenoy BCCI official
a Luton Sheikh would sometimes take cash
to people and a biddies request both
officials stated that they understood
that Nigerians central bankers were paid
off in cash by mr. Shaikh at a World
Bank meeting in Seoul Korea Chinoy said
that such payments were typically made
in great secrecy but that it was obvious
to him and others at BCCI what was going
on he described one such apparent
payment by a beedi to President Mugabe
in Zimbabwe quote I accompanied mr.
Abady and mr. Shaikh to the opening of a
joint venture with Zimbabwe I believe
that to get permission to open that
venture money was paid to President
Mugabe and to nakumo the basis I am
making this statement was that when I
went there with mr. Sheikh I was acting
as mr. Abhi's personal assistant or
secretary mr. Sheikh went off on his own
to Sina como who is the chief opposition
at that time and then he went off to see
President Mugabe and when they talked
they wanted me out of the room a number
of us were there for the opening but
only shake and a beedi left in the room
with these two political figures
otherwise I was accompanying him and
acting with him Sheikh carried a bag
with him at the time I had a suspicion
that you don't get permission as a
foreign bank so easily without a
without favors it wouldn't be so easy to
get a bank that fast especially given
the opposition of the British banks who
were already established there and I can
think of no other reason for the
exclusion of everyone but shake and a
beedi and quote the New York District
Attorney's indictment of BCCI
alleged that in 1986 and 1987 BCCI
president obd and number two official
swallow Naqvi opened a bank account in a
swiss bank in panama to quote transmit
bribes and kickbacks and the amount of a
percentage of the deposits maintained by
the central reserve bank of peru to the
two senior officers of that bank
end quote in a total amount of three
million dollars in return for peru
maintaining large central bank deposits
in BCCI these bribes were paid following
a meeting involving BCCI officials and
Peruvian President Alan Garcia according
to BCCI official Akhbar bill graeme the
purpose of the meeting was to make sure
that president Garcia would not undercut
the decision by the central bank and
that if the payments were made to the
central bankers BCCI would indeed
receive the Peruvian deposits in return
upon returning from Peru
Shafi told bill grummy that garcia had
given his blessing to the transaction
Chinoy contended the BCCI was simply
efficiently exploiting the prevailing
business practices in many of the
countries in which it operated
suggesting that in Nigeria and many
other African countries it was not
possible to do business without buying
presents giving kickbacks or making
bribes to officials quote Commission
means kickback the government approves a
300 million dollar contract a
multinational corporation agrees with
the government which has helped him 10%
gets kicked back a company has
established a broad or they nominate a
cousin or someone who has paid 3% it is
known as a commission but it is actually
a kickback it is the only way to do
business end quote
support of terrorism and arms
trafficking BCCI's support of terrorism
and arms trafficking developed out of
several factors first as a principal
financial institution for a number of
Gulf shake terms with branches all over
the world it was a logical choice for
terrorist organizations who received
payment at BCCI London and other
branches directly from Gulf state
patrons and then transferred those funds
wherever they wished without apparent
scrutiny secondly BCCI's flexibility
regarding the falsification of
documentation was helpful for such
activities finally to the extent that
pragmatic considerations were not
sufficient of themselves to recommend
BCCI
the bank's pan third world and pro islam
ideology would have recommended it to
Arab terrorist groups arms trafficking
involving BCCI included the financing of
Pakistan's procurement of nuclear
weapons through BCCI Canada as
documented in the Parvez case involving
a Pakistani who attempted to procure
nuclear related materials financed by
BCCI through the United States in a
November 22nd 1991 letter to the
subcommittee the CIA stated that quote
the agency did have some reporting as of
1987 on BCCI being used by third world
regimes to acquire weapons and transfer
technology and quote but was unwilling
to elaborate on the nature of this
activity in public in early August 1991
the committee was provided with
documents from the Latin American and
Caribbean regional office la CRO of BCCI
describing the offer for sale by the
Argentine Air Force of 20 to Mirage
aircraft for 110 million dollars the
planned sale was to have been made to
Iraq as part of Saddam Hussein's massive
military buildup prior to the Gulf War
BCCI was acting as the broker for the
transaction which was to take place in
August or September of 1989 but not
completed as a result of a dispute
within the Argentine military itself
arms sales involving BCCI from Latin
America to the Middle East remain as of
April 1992 under active investigation by
US law enforcement Abu Nidal in the
United Kingdom a key window on BCCI's
support of terrorism was an informant
named Hassan Qasim the former manager of
the Sloane Street branch of BCCI in
London Qasim had been given the accounts
of Palestinian terrorist Abu Nidal at
BCCI and then proceeded while at BCCI
to provide detailed information on the
accounts to British and American
intelligence apparently as a paid
informant according to press accounts
based on interviews with Qasim
as of 1986 the information obtained
about Abu Nidal z' use of BCCI was
sufficiently detailed as to justify
dissemination within the US intelligence
community in july 1987 as a result of
the information provided by Qasim a
State Department report concerning Abu
Nidal and Qasim Declassified in 1991 at
the request of the subcommittee
describes Abood Nadal's use of BCCI
quote the ano commercial network
comprises several businesses created
over the past seven years with the
long-term goal of establishing
legitimate trading enterprises in
various countries gaining experience in
commercial trade and making a profit for
the group the general manager of the
commercial network and the principal
agent in gray arms transactions is Samir
Hassan and ajam Aldean Samir Najma Dean
he has directed many of a nos commercial
activities both licit and illicit from
his
offices in the entrecote building in
Warsaw Poland he has maintained a
general account at a major West European
bank BCCI
and London from which he transfers money
to individual company accounts at local
banks he maintains joint control of each
company's ban accounts along with the
company manager and he is responsible
for forwarding all major contracts to
Sabri al-banna
for final approval end quote following
dissemination of this material by the US
the US coordinated efforts to shut down
the financing of the activities exposed
in its targeting of Abu Nidal through
BCCI London with some success other
terrorist groups continued to make use
of BCCI
including one state sponsor of terrorism
and the Kassar brothers Mansour and
Ghassan who have been associated with
terrorism arms trafficking and narcotics
trafficking in connection with the
government of Syria and with the
provision of East Bloc arms to the
Nicaraguan Contras in a transaction with
the north Secord enterprise paid for
with funds from the secret US arms sales
to Iran training of
death squads in April 1989 a network of
Israeli arms traffickers operating out
of Miami made a shipment of 500 Israeli
manufactured machine guns through the
Caribbean island of Antigua for the use
of members of the Medellin Cartel later
one of these weapons was used in the
assassination of Colombian presidential
candidate Luiz Carlos galn and several
other of the weapons were found in the
possession of cartel kingpin Jose
Gonzales Rodriguez gosh'
after his death and a gunfight with
Colombian drug agents the principles in
the arms trafficking included Yair Cline
who had previously been identified in
Colombian drug enforcement documents as
involved in training paramilitary squads
for the cocaine cartel in Medellin
Pinchas Shahar an Israeli intelligence
operative and Maryse Sarfati an Israeli
businessman operating out of Miami and
Paris the scandal broke after a
broadcast by NBC News on August 21st
1989 about Klein's activities and a
Colombian judge charged Klein with
having engaged in criminal conspiracy
and training the private armies for the
cartel in the months that followed the
scandal extended to Antigua as well an
island with no substantial military
force and no need for the 500 machine
guns its foreign minister ordered from
Israeli military industries subsequent
investigations of the affair including
one by the government of Antigua
conducted by Washington attorney
Lawrence Barr cella
left many questions unanswered however
it became clear that the Antigua project
had been outgrowth of the establishment
of a melon farm by Sarfati
and Antigua in 1983 financed by the
United States government through a 2
million dollar loan from the overseas
Private Investment Corporation OPEC and
part on the basis of financial
references for the
principles provided OPI see by BCCI
before providing the $2,000,000 to mr.
surf aunty for his melon farm OPI c
requested financial references Sarfatti
provided references from his principal
bank BCCI miami in a letter from its
Miami office BCCI advised OPI C on June
14 1983 that Sarfatti
quote who is one of our valued customers
unquote had a number of major accounts
with BCCI
unfortunately OPI C lost its entire
investment in the melon farm and
concluded that it had been defrauded by
Sarfati
after filing suit against Sarfati OPI c
sold its remaining interest in the melon
farm at a loss of 50 cents on the dollar
to an Israeli businessman Bruce
Rappaport and an entity owned by him
called the Swiss American Bank Rappaport
a confidant of former CIA director
William Casey was in this period also in
frequent contact with bcc i--'s original
u.s. contact
Burt Lance coincidentally one of bcc
i--'s principal board members Alfred
Hartmann who is also chairman of BCC is
secretly owned Swiss affiliate BCP also
sat on the board of another of
Rappaport's banks in 1990 when the
subcommittee sought records pertaining
to mr. Sarfati from BCCI it was advised
by lawyers for BCCI that the Sarfati
accounts at BCCI were missing additional
investigative work later located most of
the accounts pertaining to one of
starpha DS partners in the antigua
venture I am Palani but the accounts of
Sarfati
and his businesses remained lost BCCI
Latin American and Caribbean region la
CRO documents now maintained at the
Federal Reserve in Miami document
millions in BCCI loans to various
Sarfati businesses
BCCI and BNL BCC I was also involved
with the Banco Nacional del lavoro BNL
Italy's biggest bank whose Atlanta
office was involved in a scheme to
provide as much as four billion dollars
in fraudulent loans to facilitate
illegal arms sales for the government of
Iraq in March 1991 three officials from
BNL were indicted although much about
the relationship between the two banks
remains unclear BCCI documents in the
United States show that VCC I loaned
short-term often overnight it's
substantial us surpluses to be NL in
Atlanta with transactions amounting to
billions a year while such lending from
a bank with a surplus to another bank
that could use the assets would be
normal what was not normal about the
transaction was BCCI taking funds from
its overseas branches for overnight use
by vnl BCCI and BN l shared a key figure
in common
Alfred Hartmann who was on the board of
directors of both banks and the head of
BCCI's secretly controlled swiss
affiliate bunk de commerce eighth-place
mo b CP ironically when BCCI was closed
its swiss affiliate was almost
immediately sold to a Turkish banking
group Cukor OVA whose subsidiary and
trade was B NL's partner in the illegal
armed cells from the u.s. to Iraq and
part of the federal investigation into
BN L prostitution BCCI M
woman and prostitution arose out of its
creation of its special protocol
Department in Pakistan to service the
personal requirements of the Al Nahyan
family of Abu Dhabi and on an as-needed
basis other BCCI VIPs including the
families of other Middle Eastern rulers
several BCCI officers described the
protocol Department's handling of
prostitution to Senate investigators in
private and to Duerson Kia and Nazir
Shenoy confirmed their general knowledge
of the practice in testimony the
prostitution handled by BCCI was carried
over from practices originally
instituted by a beedi at the United Bank
when working with a woman
Begum asghari Rahim he submitted his
relationship with the alna high-end
family through providing them with
Pakistani prostitutes among BCCI bank
officials in Pakistan
Begum and Rahim was reputed to have in
United Bank first one the favors or
attention of the royal family by
arranging to get virgin women from the
villages from the ages of 16 to 20 Rahim
would make payments to their families
take the teenaged girls into the cities
and their taught them how to dress and
how to act including the correct
mannerisms the women would be then
brought to the Abu Dhabi princes for
years Rahim would take fifty to sixty of
these girls at a time two large
department stores in Lahore and Karachi
to get them outfitted for clothes given
the size of Raheem's
retinue and her spending habits $100,000
at the time was not unusual when she was
engaged in outfitting her charges her
activities became notorious in the
Pakistani community generally and there
was substantial competition among
clothiers and jewellers for her business
according to one US investigator with
substantial knowledge of BCCI's
activities some BCCI officials have
acknowledged that some of the females
provided some members of the Al Nahyan
family were young girls who had
not yet reached puberty and in certain
cases were physically injured by the
experience the official said that former
BCCI officials had told him that BCCI
also provided males to homosexual VIPs
intimidation of witnesses after his
experience with the nationalization of
the United Bank in Pakistan a bTW never
forgot the ability of governments to
destroy his creations
bribery and prostitution were two
techniques to discourage government
inquiry intimidation of potential
witnesses and whistleblowers was another
throughout investigations of BCCI would
be BCCI whistleblowers have expressed
fears for their lives including Noriega
'he's BCCI banker i'm jean elan who told
senate investigator Jack bloom that he
would be killed if the details of the
limited information he gave the Senate
about BCCI were revealed a second former
BCCI official who was a source of bloom
and the two BCCI officials who
ultimately testified before the Senate
in 1991 masaha Rahman and Abdul ur Sakia
both Ramanand Sakia left BCCI in 1990
together with a few others from the bank
in the period when abu dhabi was taking
active control of BCCI and forcing out
those of the original Pakistani group
who lacked close ties to the Al Nahyan
family these departures came at an
especially vulnerable time for BCCI and
the threats to them should they break
the code of silence left nothing to the
imagination and the testimony of Abdul
ursa Kia formerly the BCCI official in
charge of Latin America and the
Caribbean quote when I left the bank in
April 1990 we left as a group about 12
of us each one was told you go quietly
if you make any noise they are going to
fix you I got the word from NOC
secretary that if I made any noise
altman's firm will get me involved in a
drug case end quote and the account of
masaha rahman quote i left since then my
family and i have been hounded all sorts
of direct and indirect threats have been
used to the extent that Scotland Yard
got to know about it and the guild fir'd
police got to know about it
and they had special security put around
our house and special equipment put in
the house for direct access to the
police station and my wife and children
were suffering greatly they were being
terrorized by these situations and my
wife was having to put the children
under the bed every night for fear of
some physical violence or some gunshots
end quote
it had long been part of BCCI internal
lore that airing pakistani officers and
pakistan could wind up having an
accident if they talked about BCCI when
they left in the united kingdom another
senior BCCI executive john Hillberry
had told rahman that there had been a
gunshot through his window shortly after
he left of the bank as a result
Hillberry decided he would not go to
court against BCCI to assert any claims
against his former employer but would
simply quietly withdraw during the tampa
money-laundering case against BCCI
information was received through
government sources about potential plans
to try to affect the government's case
by kidnapping witnesses moreover in that
same case BCCI retained private
investigators to investigate the customs
agents who had brought the case against
BCCI with the investigators ultimately
destroying the business of a key
informant who assisted in the
prosecution of the case as chief
undercover customs agent robert masseur
testified quote BCCI had in fact
retained another investigative firm for
the sole purpose of investigating me and
the IRS agent who is the
find to the BCCI searches that was
something that not only happened to me
but also happened to many other people
who tried to work on behalf of the
government and in particular a citizen
who showed tremendous courage to allow
the government to use his business and
part as their cover later became a
victim of malicious statements that were
made by the investigators that led later
to his financial ruin and it's a shame
that that type of thing occurred but it
did black network
none of the BCCI officers interviewed by
the senate claimed to have knowledge of
a black network of intelligence
operatives arms dealers drug traffickers
burglars or assassins employed by BCCI
as described in a Time magazine cover
story on BCCI
on August 15 1991 they declared to a
person that they did not believe such a
network existed at the bank however
several suggested that if the black
network were recharacterized as a team
of officials carrying out beedis most
secret missions then it could exist on a
somewhat smaller scale than that
characterized by time operating out of
either bcc i--'s Pakistani protocol
Department or its Pakistani BCCI
foundation
this is our hidden history
you